docs: add extensions reactive upgrade node (#2557)
unoplatform/uno.extensions: doc/reactive-migration.md

---
uid: Extensions.Migration.Reactive
---

# Upgrading Extensions Reactive Version

> ## Upgrading to Extesions Reactive V5

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Upgrading to Extensions Reactive V5
```

Author: updated

Uno.Extension.Reactive V5 is a major release that includes a number of breaking changes. The following guide will help you upgrade your application from V4 to V5.

### MVUX Generated Code

As of V4, the MVUX analyzer generated a bindable proxy for each of the models in your app. For example, the bindable proxy for `MainModel` was named `BindableMainModel`.

This behavior changed in V5, and the MVUX analyzer will now generate a ViewModel class for each of your app's models. For example, the generated code for `MainModel` is named `MainViewModel`.

> To upgrade your application, you will need to update the references to the generated classes. These are usually referenced in the code-behind file when using XAML, for example, `MainPage.xaml.cs`, or in the Page UI definition when using C# for Markup, for example, `MainPage.cs`.

Reviewer 2: Don't we need to also document the need for the assembly attribute to use the new generators?

Author: This is partially correct. Your comment made me recall that migrating to the latest will not require any changes as we set version 2 (the previous version) as the default to avoid breaking changes. The above is only necessary if we manually set version 3; for that, we use the assembly attribute. 

I need to reword this documentation. Thanks @kazo0

Author: Fixed the wording. Thanks!

> ---

Reviewer: @ajpinedam can you move reactive-migration.md into the correct folder please
https://github.com/unoplatform/uno.extensions/tree/main/doc/Learn/Mvux

Author: done :)

uid: Extensions.Migration.Reactive
---

# Upgrading Extensions Reactive Version

## Upgrading to Extensions Reactive V5

Upgrading to Uno.Extension.Reactive V5 should not require any changes to your application code. However, there are new features and improvements that you may want to take advantage of.

### MVUX Generated Code

> As of V4, the MVUX analyzer generated a bindable proxy for each of the models in your app. For example, the bindable proxy for `MainModel` was named `BindableMainModel`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In V4, the MVUX analyzer generates a bindable proxy for each of the models in your app. For example, the bindable proxy for `MainModel` was named `BindableMainModel`.
```

> This behavior changed in V5, and the MVUX analyzer will now generate a ViewModel class for each of your app's models. For example, the generated code for `MainModel` is named `MainViewModel`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This behavior has changed in V5, and the MVUX analyzer will now generate a ViewModel class for each of your app's models. For example, the generated code for `MainModel` will be named `MainViewModel`.
```

Reviewer 3: is `BindableMainModel` still there, or being replaced by `MainViewModel`?
the way it is word here, seems to be suggest we have both.
if that is not the case, you want to clarify that.

Reviewer 3: to me, it is still not clear with the section below..?

Author: `BindableMainModel` is gone and instead we will have `MainViewModel` for the generated classes.

Maybe I am biased but I understand it from this sentence:

> This behavior has changed in V5, and the MVUX analyzer will now generate a ViewModel ...

maybe @agneszitte  could validate if it's something other would understand

Reviewer 3: > You don't have to do anything if you update but want to keep the old behavior. The generator will continue to generate the bindable proxies.

suggests that **unless**, you tag the assembly with `[BindableGenerationTool(3)]`, we still have access to the legacy `BindableMainModel`

Author: That is correct. The new Version will not change since we default to version 2 of the BindableGenerationTool. But to update and get the latest generator features, users would need to use the `BindableGenerationTool(3)` assembly annotation

cc: @Xiaoy312
